May be seated.
It's my first New Year's gift to you all as that you sit during this long reading.
You are welcome.
Hear the word of the Lord from Genesis 43 as we pick up our series through Genesis, which we will finish before Easter, picking up in chapter 43.
Hear the word of the Lord.
Now the famine was severe in the land.
And when they had eaten the grain that they had bought from Egypt, their fathers said to them, go again, buy us a little food.
But Judah said to him, the man solemnly warned us, same, you shall not see my face unless your brother is with you.
If you will send
If you will send our brother with us, we will go down and buy you food.
But if you will not send him, we will not go down for the man said to us, you shall not see my face unless your brother is with you."
As you'll said, why do you treat me so badly as to tell the man that you had another brother?
They replied, the man questioned us carefully about ourselves and our kindred saying, is your father still alive?
Do you have another brother?
Well, we told him was an answer to these questions.
Could we in any way know that he would say, bring your brother down?
And you just said to Israel, his father, send the boy with me, and we will arise and go, that we may live and not die, both we and you and also our little ones.
I will be a pledge of his safety.
From my hand, you shall require him.
If I do not bring him back to you and set him before you, then let me bear the blame forever.
If we had not delayed, we would now have returned twice.
Then their father, Israel, said to them, if it must be so, then do this.
Take some of the choice fruits of the land and your bags and carry a present down to the man, a little balm and a little honey, gum, mere pistachio nuts and almonds.
Take double the money with you.
Carry back with you the money that was returned in the mouth of your sacks.
Perhaps it was an oversight.
Take also your brother and arise, go again to the man.
May God Almighty grant you mercy before the man, and may he send back your older brother and Benjamin.
And ask for me, if I'm bereaved of my children, I'm bereaved.
So the men took this present, and they took double the money with them and Benjamin.
They rose and went down to Egypt and stood before Joseph.
When Joseph saw Benjamin with them,
He said to the steward of the house, bring the man into the house and slaughter an animal and make ready for the men are to dine with me at noon.
The man did as Joseph told him and brought the man to Joseph's house.
And the men were afraid because they were brought to Joseph's house and they said it is because of the money which he, which was replaced in our sacks the first time that we were brought in so that he may assault us and fall upon us to make us servants and seize our donkeys.
So they went up to the steward of Joseph's house and spoke with him at the door of the house and said, Oh my Lord, we came down the first time to buy food.
And when we came to the lodging place, we opened our sacks and there was each man's money in the mouth of his sack, our money in full weight.
So we have brought it again with us and we have brought other money down with us to buy food.
We do not know who put our money in our sacks.
He replied, Peace to you, do not be afraid.
Your God and the God of your Father has put treasure in your sacks for you.
I received your money."
Then he brought Simeon out to them.
And when the man had brought the man into Joseph's house and given them water and they had washed their feet, and when he had given their donkey's fodder, they prepared the present for Joseph's coming at noon.
For they heard that he should eat bread there.
And when Joseph came home, they brought into the house
to him, the present that they had with them, and bowed down to him to the ground.
And he inquired about their welfare and said, is your father well?
The old man of whom you spoke, is he alive?
And they said, you're serving our father as well.
He is still alive.
And they bowed their heads and prostated themselves.
And he lifted up his eyes and saw his brother Benjamin, his mother's son, and said, is this your youngest brother, of whom you spoke to me?
God be gracious to you, my son.
Then Joseph hurried out for his compassion, grew warm for his brother, and he sought a place to weep.
And he entered his chamber and wept there.
Then he washed his face and came out and controlling himself.
He said, serve the food.
They served him by himself and them by themselves and the Egyptians who ate with him by themselves because Egyptians could not eat with the Hebrews, for that was an abomination to the Egyptians.
And they sat before him, the firstborn according to his birthright, and the youngest according to his youth, and the men looked at one another in amazement.
Portions were taken to them from Joseph's table, but Benjamin's portion was five times as much as any of the others.
And they drank and remarried with him.
The grass-withers and the flowers fade, but the word of our God will stand forever.
Amen, pray with me.
Merciful God in heaven.
We give you thanks for your word, your word, which does not return void, which means it accomplishes its task of speaking to your people, of encouraging your people, of calling your people out, strengthening us, lighting our ways for that your word would do these things this morning in us and through the words that I say.
We pray this in your name, amen.
You know, there are
a handful of words that I could say in front of you that would, for some of you, become immediately unsettling and nerve-wracking.
And there's words I'm gonna say, and just stick with me for a second.
Words like male headship.
Words like submission.
Words like patriarchy.
These words, when you hear them, depending on your perspective, where you come from, they can immediately make somebody
nervous.
And maybe you're nervous in this room now.
You're like, what is he going to say about these words?
And I think the reason why many of us are nervous is because all the connotations that come with words like these, the connotations of control, of manipulation, of oppression.
Because for many of you, ladies in the room, these words have actually been used against you, to do harm to you.
to actually control you, to manipulate you, and we're submission is actually just another word for oppression.
We have certain visions of these words given to us by our experience and our culture.
There's a few words, I mean, if you said, I believe in patriarchy on the internet, you would get destroyed.
No one will stop and ask you, what do you mean by that?
They don't care because they care what they mean by that, and they're gonna destroy you, just for a little history.
That word simply means father rule, father led.
I mean, it's functionally the same thing that Paul says in Ephesians 5 when he calls men to be the heads of their households.
I mean, you could use the word patron.
I get why people don't like it.
There's a lot of bad connotations with it, but these words themselves are fine words, but we revolt against all these kinds of things because of the history, because of our life and our experience.
And often,
then our response can be to like, well, okay, we can't use this word, we can't use that word, we have this concept, we have these words in the Bible, but maybe they don't mean what they say that they mean.
And sometimes when we skirt around these words and we run from these concepts, instead of trying to understand the proper use of them and them in their best light, what can happen is we can actually create bigger problems for ourselves.
And so much so, I think today, many men have no idea
what it means to actually be a man.
And so in this lack of guidance, many men can go too far and be like, OK, that means I've got to be stronger.
I've got to be the macho guy.
And I'm going to listen to the macho guy podcast.
And you're going to be out there on this realm or other guys revolt against that.
And they become soft.
They became very passive.
And even the secular culture is picking up on the lack of men in our culture.
I don't know if you've noticed this.
Or for one, there's a handful of books that are being released.
One that's worthy of your attention is called The Boy Crisis.
I'm pretty sure it's a secular author.
But talking about education systems and how everything's catering towards women and the lack of men even going to college today and the percentages and how those have shifted.
And there's a crisis of how do we raise men?
Men have low motivation, and even then, I listen to a lot of radio, mostly sports radio, and there's all these ads about, maybe you've heard them, like, dedication.
Which, what's this ad about?
It's trying to encourage men to be good fathers to their families.
Why is there an ad movement for that?
Because people are noticing there's a lack of men in this acting, as men in the world.
And it's a very confusing time for men.
It's like, we want them to leave, but maybe not that.
We want them to be strong, but we also want them to be weak.
And men are kind of confused, like, what do you want us to do?
And so we kind of boil it down to it.
So I think male headship means, you know, I'm in charge of my home, but really, I'm only in charge as long as my wife agrees with me, and that's what we'll do, right?
So what does it mean to be a man?
This is a vital question, especially for our day and age.
This has always been an important question, but it's especially a important question for our time.
Because I will say strongly, as men go, so goes the culture.
You may say it might be an overstatement, Craig.
Well, think about every problem in our current culture, like the violence or crime.
I imagine most of the criminals locked up right now in our prisons are what?
They're men.
Most of the violence perpetrated in our culture are done by who?
By men.
Domestic violence is perpetrated mostly, predominantly, probably, I don't know the percentage.
I'm going to guess 99% by who?
By men.
And even the few instances where those odds are flipped, why is that because there was a lack of father in that woman's life?
This is just a true thing.
Even when you think about issues like abortion, that is a problem and a failure not of women, of men.
If you think of other female issues like a prostitution,
That's a failure of what?
It's a failure of men.
Full stop.
I mean, if you, as the men go, so goes the culture.
And this might seem like a strange topic to pick up on from Genesis 43.
This student in the room were like, Craig, Craig, this is cool.
We're talking about this, but why are you talking about this from Genesis 43?
Well, I'm gonna tell you why.
We're talking about this from Genesis 43.
There's a handful of reasons.
For one, when you're going through narratives, like books of Genesis,
There's always, like, a lot of different threads you can pull from any narrative, because narratives aren't necessarily trying to teach you just one thing.
There's many different themes and many different applications for any narrative text.
So there's one.
So you've got a lot of license to pull different themes from the text.
Especially in text like ours, where the narrative is slowing down a little bit.
And in it, you get these three interesting characters, these three men.
And one of the threads that you've seen all throughout Genesis that we've not really touched on is, you know, Genesis is a story of God's creation and how God's dealing with the world.
The question is like, well, how is he actually communicating and dealing with the world?
Well, the way God deals with the world, you notice this thread throughout Genesis is by speaking to heads of households, right?
He speaks to Noah.
He didn't speak to all of Noah's family.
He speaks to Abraham.
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
And now he's speaking to Jacob's sons, the patriarchs of Genesis.
So it's how God speaks to the world.
He speaks to us through heads, through heads of house, through these men, leading them to lead the people of God.
And so you see these threads start to pull out.
And I will say this, as we kind of zero in on this
on this topic, and I think as we walk through, just be patient with me, as we walk through this text, you're gonna see exactly how I got to where I got.
Talking about this topic from this text, I think it's there.
But one quick message for the ladies in the room, I do understand, when you pick a topic like this, it's a tough one, because like half the room is, you might say I'm not talking to half the room.
So what about the ladies in the room?
Well, I'll say a couple things here, it's a couple caveats.
For one, I think that you should still listen.
This is vitally important because many of these themes, although they are directed towards men, we have a shared humanity.
And so there's always crossover event that happens even when we're talking to men or we're talking specifically to women.
The other side of this, you know, when I make statements like as a man goes, so goes the culture.
Some of the ladies in the room you might feel, well, what about me?
Do I not matter for the direction of culture?
Well, no, obviously men and women both are vital.
to the restoration project, working together, just to quickly illustrate this, and I understand this illustration, and I mean, this introduction's longer than normal, it's fine.
In the garden, in Genesis, the Holy Spirit is called, I mean, sorry, let me remind, whoop, in Genesis one and two, Eve is called, what, she's called the helper, helpmate.
And there's a way to take that as like a derogatory term like, oh, they're just a little helpmate helping the man do whatever he wants to do.
That is one way to take it.
That is not the way the Bible means it because you know who's called the helper?
Holy Spirit.
Who is a Holy Spirit?
One of the members of the Triune Godhead is a Holy Spirit lesser than the Father and the Son will know by no means.
Does he have a different role though?
Yeah.
His role is to support the work of the Father
in the sun.
And so being called to help mate is not a lesser role, just like the Holy Spirit is not a lesser role in the Trinity.
Adam actually couldn't do his work in the garden without Eve.
That's why Eve wasn't made, because Adam was alone.
He couldn't do the work by himself.
He needed some help.
So he got, he got it Eve.
And it's a beautiful thing working together to propel God's mission in this world.
One other quick note about this, and why I think it's really important for you ladies to pay attention, even though I'm speaking to the men in the room this morning, predominantly, is this.
Don't listen to me just to load up your gun for ammo for later in the day.
I'm like, hey, remember that thing you're supposed to do?
Well, you didn't do it.
It's not that.
But the men in your life, you all have men in your life.
You all have sons.
You have brothers.
You have husbands.
You have fathers.
You'll have men in your life somewhere.
And one of the great things you can do for the men in your life is actually to encourage them.
Men know where they fail.
They carry lots of shame with them.
You know what they need?
They need from you.
They need encouragement.
They need someone in their life to point out the ways that they do things well.
Like, hey, you're actually really good at that.
Let me encourage you.
So this will give you some helpful tips to encourage the men that are in your life
So let's turn to the text here.
What does Genesis 43 have to teach us about the calling of men?
I think it teaches us three things.
For one, the men are called to lead.
The men are called secondly to love and finding that men are called to remember their God.
Men are called to lead, men are called to love, and men are called to remember their God.
So first,
men are called to lead.
So as we look at this first idea that men are called to lead, and we look at the characters here, we feel like we discover that the setup to men leading is actually seen first by failure to lead, and we see this in verse one and two.
Now the family was severe in the land.
When they had eaten the grain that they had brought with it, Egypt, their father said to them, go again, buy us a little food.
So just a quick, quick, quick recap
There's famine in the land.
Joseph, the Jacob's son that got sold into slavery by his brothers is feeding the land from Egypt.
And this is after the brothers had just taken a first trip to go get grain.
And Simeon, the oldest brother, was left behind.
And they were supposed to come and bring Benjamin back.
The only way they could get more food is if they came and brought the youngest brother, Benjamin, back with them to go get grain.
And we discover here it's been some time has passed.
And they are eating all the food that they got for the first trip, and so they need more food.
I know if it's Jacob forgets what was required to get more food, or if he's just trying to ignore the problem at hand, because he doesn't want to lose another son.
And then in verse three, you get Judah reminding him, Judah said to him, the man solemnly warned us about this.
If you're a center brother with us, we will go down and buy food.
But if you will not, we will not go down.
So he's reminding him of the stipulations.
Listen, we can't go get food.
Unless you send Benjamin with us, we can't get around this.
And how does Jacob respond to being reminded of the situation that they're in, which is a dire one, and you even get this.
And due to speech later, they're clearly, they're about to die.
They're going to starve and die.
This isn't just to hey, I haven't eaten for a couple of days, kind of hunger.
He says, he responds like this in verse six.
Israel said,
Why did you treat me so badly as to tell the man that you had another brother?
It's kind of funny.
He's blaming them for saying that they have more family.
He's frustrated.
This moment is overwhelming for him.
The fact that any food, and there's only one place to get food or they will die, but he doesn't want to lose his son.
He's scared.
He doesn't know what to do.
And in this moment,
He delays what you see now that the verse 10 says, if we had not delayed, we would have been able to return twice.
He's delayed and he's frozen.
In the midst of like this big opportunity to provide and care for his family, he freezes.
And I know what it's like to be a guy, because I am one.
But I know, man, one of the things you think about when you're laying in your bed at night is you think about this.
You think about life and intruder breaks into the house.
I'm gonna stand in the bowl, I'm gonna make sure my family, I know how my family's gonna get out of here, they're gonna jump out that window right there, and I'm gonna delay as long as I can, even if it costs my life.
If you think about those moments, I know you do.
Not all the time, but you do think you have those thoughts.
And here he had that moment where he could actually lay down his life and say, hey, I'm gonna sacrifice myself, make sure we get the grain, so feed my family, and he freezes.
He fails in that moment.
And I think this happens often to men
when uncontrollable situations happen in life and you don't know what to do, we either freeze and we panic or we blow up and we explode on people.
Think about this, if you're overwhelmed at work and you come home and you start getting bombarded with questions and even simple, innocent questions and you either withdraw and you just kind of stare blankly at them and it's like, hey, where are you?
Or you snap and ignore and then you
Well, I can't deal with all this nonsense at home.
And so I'm just going to pour myself into what I'm good at.
And this is what men struggle with.
They pour themselves into their competencies.
We're not good in the areas that we're struggling.
And so I'm just going to feel good about myself and pour myself into my competencies.
And this is honestly what a lot of what leads to workaholism is this.
I feel like I can do my work well.
I know how to do that.
I don't know how to deal with this problem over here.
It's probably better for everybody if I just go ahead and just stay at work or money.
This is a problem for us.
And in this moment of Jacob freezing this failure of leadership where the family needs someone to lead them, here steps Judah.
I remember Judah's story for just a second.
This is a man who, it was his idea to actually sell Joseph to the caravan that was passing by.
Oh yeah, Judah also, I think this is Genesis 37.
or they're about, what did he do?
He sleeps with his daughter-in-law and his excuse for it was, he thought she was a prostitute.
So he's like, ah, it's probably fine.
It's wild.
You know, not who you would expect to be the hero of the story, but God has been forming him and drawing him to himself.
And this is what he says in verse eight to nine.
And Judah said that Israel, his father,
Send the boy with me, and we will arise and go that we may live and not die, both we and you and also our little ones.
I will be a pledge for his safety.
From my hand, you shall require him.
If I do not bring him back to you and set him before you, then let me bear the blame forever."
It's a pretty powerful statement for that guy to be able to say.
God has been slowly turning him into a godly man.
He's offering to die for his brother, and this is wild on a couple fronts.
For one, if you remember Jacob, I had two wives.
He had his wife, Lea, and his wife Rachel.
Rachel, he loved Lea.
He did not.
Rachel had two sons, Joseph, who they sold in the slave of the first time.
And it's one of the reasons why Joseph got sold in the slave of his because he was a favorite, because he was the oldest from the favorite wife.
And her other son was the youngest son, which is Benjamin.
And he got Jude over here, and there's been this tension between the layer and the line of Rachel.
They don't like each other.
They're playing favorites.
And now you get Judah.
He's the oldest brother now in the house with seeming in prison in Egypt.
And Judah says, listen, I will die even for my rival, my rival brother.
I will pledge my life for him.
This is not a small change.
This is massive.
He who once was willing to sell his brother in, now he's willing to put his life as a pledge for him.
He also doesn't like minimize the danger here and pretend like, hey, this is not that big of a deal.
I'm sure it'll be fine.
He knows it might not be fine.
And he doesn't have like a big plan either.
He shows us the beginning of leadership is being able to walk into the dark even when you don't know the outcome.
And this is the first thing we learn about leadership.
There's two aspects to what it means to what our leadership looks like.
The first thing we learn about leadership is to lead us to take responsibility.
To lead is to take responsibility.
Leadership is not about competence, it's not about certainty, but about taking responsibility.
Even if you think about the Bible, remember Moses, Moses who goes and rescues the people from the promise, and he has to have someone else speak for him, right?
It's kind of interesting.
It's not about his competence, it's not about his certainty, it's about him taking responsibility and leading, and this is what he does, he pledges his life for his brother.
His family needs food.
He will do what he needs to do.
He will take responsibility to go get it.
Another word for responsibility here, and this idea that I've hinted at in the introduction is the idea of covenant headship.
This idea of covenant headship, this is how God deals with his people through representatives.
And the way he does is that representative takes responsibility for the actions of the people.
It's not because they're smarter, it's not because they're more gifted necessarily, but it's called, they're called to carry the burden.
And then the first way you were called to lead in this world, in your family, in your life, is by taking responsibility, by being slow to blame, by not following Adam, which we're always a little bit quick to blame.
And then when we are quick to blame, and we realize, we're like, no, it's Adam's fault, which is kind of funny, because then you're blaming Adam for it.
It's a good joke, Craig.
But this is the kind of men that we need to be, be slow to blame, quick to be able to carry the burden, quick to take responsibility.
When things go sideways, even when it's not our fault, we'll quick to stand in and take responsibility.
Which leads to the second aspect of leadership, which is sacrifice, right?
And this is where Judas pledge here, willing to sacrifice himself for his brother,
What else does he say?
If I do not bring him back to you and set him before you, then let me bear the blame forever.
This kind of sacrifice that he's willing to take, even setting the blame for the rest of his life if something bad happens, is a foreshadow of his future offspring who is Jesus himself.
Jesus, the true covenant head, the one who never fails in leadership, the one who never fails to bear responsibility for his people on himself.
And what does that bearing responsibility look like?
It looks like sacrifice.
I mean, Jesus himself said, he said, in Mark 10, the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve and to offer his life as a ransom for many.
This is why Jesus came, to serve, to lay his life down.
And this is what leadership looks like.
It looks like dying to self.
This is also a theme that's picked up in Ephesians 5.
You know, at the beginning of that section, it says, wives, submit to your husbands.
I was unto the Lord, and then it says, husbands, love your wives.
Does Christ love the church?
How do Christ love the church?
Laying his life down for her.
This is how you lead.
You lead by death, by dying.
And there's sometimes people can view this kind of act of service, servant leadership.
There's almost like a weakness to it.
Some people mock this idea of servant leadership, like it's a cowardice, like you're just leading from behind.
I mean, you don't want to take charge out in front.
So you're just kind of, I'm just going to lead in the back and be passive and be sheepish.
That is not what the picture is here.
Servant leadership, what it does is it recognizes the point of leading.
The point of leading anybody, any group of people is actually to serve them, to serve their needs.
It's a kind of leadership that says, I'm gonna act in the best interest of this group of people, even when it is against my best interest, which obviously there's no great example in Christ for him to work on behalf of the interests of his people, amid his own death.
It's a courageous movement towards danger for the sake of others.
That's what we're called to.
This is what God has called you to in this room.
If you think about if you're a boy in this room, you're a little boy.
If you're a little boy, look at me for a second.
You know, God gave you something right here.
What do He give you right here?
He gave you muscles, right?
He made you strong.
Little boys, why did God make you strong?
Is it to beat up on your sister and brothers?
Well, no.
But that's not what God gave you muscles for.
Scripture tells us that the glory of a man is his strength.
You know when that glory of your muscles is seen most clearly and your strength is seen most clearly?
Is when you use it to serve the needs of others.
That glory is seen most clearly when you give away your strength to serve, not to dominate others, not to lead in fear, but to lead by bearing the responsibility and sacrifice.
That is what God has made you strong.
So the first thing we discover about the call of men here in this text is men are called to lead.
And that leadership looks like taking responsibility.
It looks like sacrificing, seeing the need of others before yourself.
It's the first question you need to ask yourself for the men in this room is where do you struggle to take responsibility?
Where are those little times in life where you're quick to blame?
What do you struggle to put others' needs before your own?
Where do you selfish?
using your strength, your talents to make yourself comfortable.
The first area of encouragement we need in this calling of manhood is this encouragement to lead, which leads to this other side of the coin of manhood, which is love.
So first, we're called to lead.
Second, we are, men are called to love.
This is an essential piece and often neglected.
We're not just called to be cold men who stoically lead and are super serious all the time.
It's not what we're called to.
We're called to love.
We're called to a tenderheartedness towards the people around us.
And this is actually what you see in the character of Joseph.
We see that they finally go back.
This is their second journey into Egypt to get more food and they're invited into the house.
And remember, this has been 22 years since Joseph has encountered his brothers.
So his brothers do not know who he is.
And if you think about Joseph's life in these last 22 years, it haven't been great.
He's been in prison, which doesn't sound like a great time, but God has been preparing him in this prison, and Joseph has become a very capable man.
He's second in command in the greatest nation at the time in Egypt, and he is saving the entire ancient Near East from famine and death.
No one would blame Joseph if he became a little bit colder, if he became a bit detached, emotionally detached, if he was a little bit hardened and even vindictive based on everything that happened to him.
No one would blame him for this.
But God has been forming him quietly in the dark and has turned him into a different kind of person, a person that's amazing to see.
We see as he's coming
As he comes before his brothers, says this in verse 27, and he inquired about their welfare and said, is your father well, the old man of whom he spoke?
Is he alive?
I mean, his first instinct is, is my dad alive?
Am I going to get to see my dad again?
He's not angry.
Not angry at his brothers either.
He's like, am I going to see my father?
And then he says, is my brother there?
Is this my brother?
Is this my young brother?
Obviously, he's not going to recognize him 22 years later.
He wouldn't know.
from just seeing him to say, yeah, this is Benjamin.
And this whole moment of coming before his brothers overwhelms him in verse 30.
And Joseph hurried out for his compassion grew warm for his brother and he sat a place to weep and he entered his chamber and wept there.
The scene over at Womson, this isn't weakness, this is not just sentimentality, this is a tender heart.
This is a profound love and he's not hiding his tears because of embarrassment.
I mean, two chapters later in chapter 45, he openly weeps in front and with his brothers.
So this isn't the time that he wasn't ready to reveal himself to them yet.
That's what's happening here.
He still has one more test to get to his brothers to see if they've changed, if they've grown.
This isn't weakness.
This is a tender hardiness.
This is a man who has grown into a godly man.
And as you grow into godliness, you grow in compassion.
A godly man is not domineering.
He's not cold-hearted.
He's not quick to violence or anger, which violence and anger miss where you can misuse strength easily in those two subjects.
A godly man is a man of love.
A man of tender-heartedness, especially towards his family.
This is where many men struggle.
Many men struggle with this tender hardiness.
There's probably two different kinds of men in this room.
There's gonna be some men that don't struggle with this part.
You struggle with the latter, whereas some of you are gonna struggle with leadership and taking responsibility.
And you're gonna be a tenderhearted person that say, I'm really tenderhearted.
You can come to me, you can tell me anything, but I'm not gonna take responsibility.
I'm not gonna work hard in those ways.
Others are the opposite.
And this is where probably most fall, especially in a farming area,
I grew up with farmers, by farmers.
I know what it's like.
They're not the most tender-hearted, loving people.
You grow up and you learn, hey, I'm going to take responsibility.
I'm going to serve.
I'm going to sacrifice.
I'll do that all day.
I'll take a bowl for my family.
But I'm not tender-hearted.
I'm not very emotional.
I never tell people I love them.
Usually we fall on either side of the coin, where our natural tendencies are one or the other.
But the biblical vision of what a godly man looks like is both called the lead out of strength and out of love.
And one of these without the other is always corrupt, right?
If you have authority without compassion, I mean, that's what toxic masculinity is.
Is that authority piece without any kind of compassion.
But if you have compassion,
Without any kind of responsibility, that's this unstable masculinity, and that's not gonna go anywhere either.
The church needs both from you.
The world needs both, your wife needs both, that your children need both from you.
Now, although this is a beautiful vision, beautiful vision of the completeness of manhood that has a strength to lead and bear responsibility and sacrifice, but it has a compassion to weep and cry with you,
Yes, amen.
It's a beautiful vision.
And if you're a man here, you're like, that's what I want.
But this is the challenge too.
This is where you're going to feel the weight of your failures just come, you know, where you're strong and weak.
I know where I'm strong.
My kids, probably my wife, everyone who lives with you knows where you're strong in this and where you're weak in this.
And this is the, this is the great challenge.
How do we not just bear shame in our inability?
I mean, and we've so rarely seen this combination.
Is this even possible?
Is this an impossible endeavor to try to grow in both of these ways?
Is this just an idealism that we're just going to be like, well, I'm never going to be like that.
Moving on, might as well not even try.
The only way it's not impossible is when you look to Christ, because this perfectly describes the man that Christ was.
He's the lion and the what?
And the lamb.
He's the one who, out of fierce anger, turned over tables who stepped in front of the stones and protected a prostitute who says as a sword coming out of his mouth and robes dipped in blood.
He's a warrior.
He's the one who takes responsibility.
He's the one who leads and sacrifices for his people.
He's strong.
But Jesus also tells us he's what?
He's gentle and lowly.
Jesus is the one who weeps when his friend dies.
He's tenderhearted.
He is the lamb led, the slaughter.
This is who Christ is.
He is our model.
He is the one true man, the true Adam that we are growing and maturing into.
It is not possible to get there naturally though.
You know, C.S.
Lewis has this essay on medieval chivalry.
And in this essay, he talks about this kind of vision of masculinity and the strength
in the leadership, but also that having the humility and the softness as well, and that the nights of old had this unique combination.
And he says this kind of man is not a product of nature.
I mean, this kind of man is not just grown by accident.
This is an art.
And if an art, then it has an artist.
And that artist is God himself working on us and through us.
Growing into this kind of man is not possible on your own, but as we follow the one true man in Jesus, he will form you into this.
And you know, there's this language about men having a quest, which is always a little bit cheesy, they call men, you need to have a quest.
It's a little cheesy, but maybe it's a little bit true too.
If you need a quest, this is the greatest quest you could have is to become this kind of man.
And the reality is you come what you behold.
And you were called to behold Christ.
And this is what we see finally and thirdly, the men are called to remember their God.
Men are called to remember their God.
And just quickly, you see this in Jacob's response to his son here in verse 11.
All right, he's been delaying.
We know for longer than this chapter shows us.
He's been hesitating on making the decision.
He's been fearful.
He's been weak.
Judas stands up and takes leadership.
And then he responds and seems to change.
And their father, Israel, said to them, if it must be so, then do this.
And he goes on this list and he comes up with this plan of bringing this present to the leader in Egypt.
He changed from this whiny, fearful man to a decisive one, a one who's willing to take risk, willing to lose, even though he doesn't know how this is going to turn out.
He says it then, if I'm bereaved, I'm bereaved.
Let it be as it is.
So where does this change come from?
I mean, verse 14 gives us a clue.
He says, may God Almighty grant you mercy before the man may he send back your brother and you're the brothers in Benjamin.
He names God.
God Almighty, it's in Hebrew, it's El Shaddai.
He remembers the name of the God who has always been with them.
This is the name that God had given him and he remembers him.
He remembers that God first came to him when he was fleeing from his brother and he had a rock for a pillow and God met him and told him that what he was gonna do for him.
He remembers that this is the same God that showed up to him when he was enslaved all those years with his father-in-law, calling him out.
He remembered this is the same God who met with me before he met his brother when he came back to the land and wrestled with him.
He remembered the God who provided, the God who promised him that he'd be with him,
He remembered and named his God.
He was able to move forward trusting God's promises to again lead him through the dark.
Not his wisdom, it's not his strength, it's not his ingenuity, but the only way he was able to find peace with the darkness before him is because he finally realized, I don't have to be God, I don't have to control the situation, I don't have to know all the ins and outs, I just need to trust the name, else should I.
The reality is a man that's ruled by the need to always know and control the outcomes will never be able to lead in this world.
Faithful leadership is obedience in the dark.
Jacob remembered who he was and who God was.
And this identity is not formed in you by accident, but the primary place is formed in you is in worship.
In fact, if you want to know how the world has changed, the world has first changed as you gather in this place.
Because what is this moment, it's a moment of remembrance, it's a service of remembrance where we remember the great story of God, the God who created and called all things into being, and we remember that even the ugly parts of the story and the fallen that their sin has infected this world, but we remember that God has
has made a way for us, even in our sin.
He's redeeming us by the blood of his son.
And not just that, he's redeeming the world.
And there's before us a day when all sin will be no more.
And still in us, the story, and in that story, we remember what?
Remember who God is and who you are, sons and daughters of the living God.
The service of remembrance, which reminds us of the story of our forgiveness, of our identity, and sends us out on mission.
This is the very thing that gives you strength and tender hardness.
It strengthens you in the Lord and gives you tender hardness to ask for forgiveness and receive forgiveness, to sing, to show emotion.
Also men, this is where your family learns what's most important in your life.
Not sports, not your work, not your hobbies, but this moment.
We'll sacrifice anything to be here, to gather.
to pray and to sing, and this is a, I'm gonna get on a one small little baby hobby horse of mine, is men, your children will only sing loud if you do.
I've seen this, this is almost 100% true.
I've served leading singing in many different churches for over 20 years, and almost a universal truth is this.
If the man is singing, the children will sing,
If the man is not singing, the children will not sing.
There's always exceptions to every rule.
So yeah, you can probably point out a few examples where this is wrong, but generally speaking, this is true.
Man, your children need to see your emotions.
They need to see your tender heartiness.
And one of the ways you actually show your tender heartiness is not just shitting a tear at the end of a Disney movie.
Oh, that probably counts.
You probably should cry on some of those.
I do.
But it's actually seeing you sing loud.
even if you're singing off key, because you don't care, because you're identity is so secure.
I know who I am in Christ.
I can sing off key, but I can sing loudly and proudly.
We need to be a church with a man sing.
This is one of the way you show that your identity in him and your tender hardness in this remembering.
It is here in this moment that we are all formed and formed again into the image of Christ.
You become what you worship.
It's here that we deal with our insecurities.
And I know some of you,
You look at your past and maybe there's failures that you look at.
It's like, I can't fix that problem.
You might not be able to on this side of eternity.
But that's okay.
Christ has you.
He has you here now and you have now into the rest of your life that you have to make changes, to be different.
This is what we are after.
To remember and experience the grace for the painful past and rest and secure in the grace that we have for our future because Christ, the good shepherd, goes before you.
He is your strength.
He is your leader.
He is your shepherd.
Christ is doing this work in you.
This work doesn't happen by accident.
It happens by dogged pursuit of him.
I see his open your eyes to receive his grace.
It is now your chief responsibility to chase after him.
You know, Jesus gives parables about this.
Like the kingdom of God is that the pearl that gets hidden in the field and then the guy goes and buys the field and gets the pearl, right?
Christ coming to you and bringing the gospel to you and forming your identity.
That is the pearl.
Now you got to go and chase after it with all that you are.
This is what you're called towards.
This is, this is your quest, man, just to grow into this kind of man.
And the reality is just like Jacob's transformation here happened with context of his son.
So our transformation and change in this happens with each other.
As we're in each other's lives, this is what makes, you know, Riker talked about, discipleship groups earlier.
This is what makes those great.
They're places where we can interact with each other and encourage one another towards this end.
And so we're with our families and encourage each other within our families.
You can't do this on your own.
He gives you other men in this room to help grow you.
He gives you wives for the men that have them to help grow you and encourage you.
This is what we're called towards.
Men, may you make this.
your chief pursuit in life to grow in godliness.
And may the woman in those around you in life encourage you towards this end.
Pray with me.
Merciful God in heaven, we give you thanks for your love for us.
We give you thanks that you are the good shepherd.
You are the true one who never leads his sheep astray.
I pray that as we seek to lead well and the spheres of influence they've given us, that we would lead as you led us.
They'd make us a strong and soft-hearted.
They'd make us be able to lead and have love in our hearts.
Do this work in us by the power of your spirit we pray.
Amen.